README.md, before:

# fastGallery

[![My Skills](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=flask,py,html,vercel)](#)

A simple and elegant photo gallery portfolio website built with Flask.



# Why fastGallery?
- [x] **Fast🚀:** 97 performance score on [PSI](https://pagespeed.web.dev/analysis/https-haozheli-pictures/4ccl9diswh?form_factor=mobile) when loading more than 30 pictures. Photos will ready to be viewed within 0.4 seconds. 
- [x] **Easy🎂:** [![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FHaozhe-Li%2FfastGallery) with one click. Easy to deploy to any serverless platforms. GUI provided for setting or updating website. Coding is slightly required.
- [x] **Responsive🌆:** Responsive design allowed contents to be displayed in varied screen size.
- [x] **Search🔎:** Smart generate keywords filter for fast searching.

**still working on:**
- [ ] Customizing filters on the client side
- [ ] i18n
- [ ] Smart Image Tagging



# Usage

#### Quick Start

1. Clone the repository

   ````
   https://github.com/Haozhe-Li/fastGallery.git
   ````

2. Install the dependencies:

   ````bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ````

3. Go to your project directory and change to the **``client``** folder using a command like ``cd client``: 

   - Use ``python3 config_handler.py`` to configure the site name, site title, etc.
   - Use ``python3 upload_handler.py`` to upload image and add description and title for it.

4. For those time when you want to update your gallery, repeat **Step 3** to reconfigure or upload new images. Deleting images is **NOT** available yet.

5. Go back to your project directory, then build your website with the following command

   ````bash
   python3 app.py
   ````

   Then you should be able to visit ``http://127.0.0.1:5000`` to preview your website.

#### Beta features

- **Batch Pictures Upload:** Copy and paste all your pictures you wish to uplaod to `/tests/image_folder`, and run the python script `python3 update_picdb_from_folder.py` under `/tests` directory. All the pictures will be loaded into database with filename as title, and empty description.

# Contribution

Pull request and Issues are welcome! Don't hesitate to question us.



# License

This project is licensed under the [MIT](LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat: official release smart tagging and searching

README.md, after:

# fastGallery

[![icons](https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=flask,py,html,vercel)](#)

A simple and elegant photo gallery portfolio website built with Flask.



# Why fastGallery?
- [x] **Fast🚀:** 97 performance score on [PSI](https://pagespeed.web.dev/analysis/https-haozheli-pictures/4ccl9diswh?form_factor=desktop) when loading more than 30 pictures. Photos will ready to be viewed within **0.4 seconds**💨. <img src="/Users/haozheli/Coding/fastGallery/docs/img/PSI.png" alt="PSI" style="zoom: 100%; align: center;" />
- [x] **Easy🎂:** [![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FHaozhe-Li%2FfastGallery) with one click. Easy to deploy to any serverless platforms. GUI provided for setting or updating website. Coding🧑‍💻 is **NOT** required.
- [x] **Responsive🌆:** Responsive design allowed contents to be displayed in **VARIED SCREEN SIZES**📱💻.
- [x] **Smart🤖:** Smart tagging your photos and **SEARCH**🔎 them in a sec!

**still working on:**

- [ ] i18n🌎



# Usage

#### Quick Start

1. Clone the repository

   ````
   https://github.com/Haozhe-Li/fastGallery.git
   ````

2. Install the dependencies:

   ````bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt -r local_requirements.txt
   ````

   `requirements.txt` is required for deployments, `local_requirements.txt` is required for initialize your website, updating photos, and smart tagging features.

3. Go to your project directory and change to the **``client``** folder using a command like ``cd client``: 

   - Use ``python3 config_handler.py`` to configure the site name, site title, etc.
   - Use ``python3 upload_handler.py`` to upload image and add description and title for it.

4. For those time when you want to update your gallery, repeat **Step 3** to reconfigure or upload new images. Deleting images is **NOT** available yet.

5. Go back to your project directory, then build your website with the following command

   ````bash
   python3 app.py
   ````

   Then you should be able to visit ``http://127.0.0.1:5000`` to preview your website.

#### Beta features

- **Batch Pictures Upload:** Copy and paste all your pictures you wish to uplaod to `/tests/image_folder`, and run the python script `python3 update_picdb_from_folder.py` under `/tests` directory. All the pictures will be loaded into database with filename as title, and empty description.\
- **Smart Tagging and Search:** This feature is enabled by default. You can disable this feature by unchecking the checkbox in the configuration page by running ``python3 config_handler.py``. By enabling this feature, you will be using the `nltk` text handling library to tag your photos from your title and description. Additional resources in `nltk` may be downloaded. All tagging information will be stored locally in your `image_db.json` file under the `keywords` field. 



# Deploy

As a Flask project, fastGallery can be deployed with minimal configuration. You can [![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FHaozhe-Li%2FfastGallery) with Vercel in one click, or with other providers by cloning this repo and deploying it using Dockerfile for example.



# Contribution

Pull request and Issues are welcome! Don't hesitate to question us.



# License

This project is licensed under the [MIT](LICENSE).
